Choosing between anonymous and tuple types (#19201)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/design-guidelines/choosing-between-anonymous-and-tuple.md

---
title: "Choosing between anonymous and tuple types"
description: Learn how to decide whether to design a type as a class, or to design a type as a struct.
ms.date: 06/24/2020
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
---

# Choosing between anonymous and tuple types

> As a developer, choosing the appropriate type can be scary task. Anonymous types have been available since C# 3.0, while generic <xref:System.Tuple%602?displayProperty=nameWithType> types were introduced with .NET Framework 4.0. There are more modern options that exist, such as <xref:System.ValueTuple%602?displayProperty=nameWithType> - which as the name implies, provide a value type with the flexibility of anonymous types. In this article, you'll learn when it's appropriate to choose one type over the other.

Reviewer: I'd rework this paragraph.  I wouldn't use the word "scary", but it does involve tradeoffs.

Secondly, I wouldn't refer to Tuples as "more modern". They were added in a later release in C#, but the concepts have been around for longer.

## Usability and functionality

> With the advent of C# 3.0, when anonymous types were introduced so to were Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) expressions. With LINQ, developers often project results from queries into anonymous types that hold a few select properties from the objects their working with. Consider the following example, that instantiates an array of <xref:System.DateTime> objects, and iterates through them projecting into an anonymous type with two properties.

Reviewer: Some grammar suggestions:

```suggestion
Anonymous types were introduced in C# 3.0 with Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) expressions. With LINQ, developers often project results from queries into anonymous types that hold a few select properties from the objects they're working with. Consider the following example, that instantiates an array of <xref:System.DateTime> objects, and iterates through them projecting into an anonymous type with two properties.
```

```csharp-interactive
var dates = new[]
{
    DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(-1),
    DateTime.UtcNow,
    DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(1),
};

foreach (var anonymous in
             dates.Select(
                 date => new { Formatted = $"{date:MMM dd, yyyy hh:mm zzz}", date.Ticks }))
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Ticks: {anonymous.Ticks}, formatted: {anonymous.Formatted}");
}
```

> Anonymous types are instantiated by using the [`new`](../../csharp/language-reference/operators/new-operator.md) operator, and the property names and types are inferred from the declaration. If two or more anonymous object initializers in an assembly specify a sequence of properties that are in the same order and that have the same names and types, the compiler treats the objects as instances of the same type. They share the same compiler-generated type information.

Reviewer: I suggest slightly stronger wording:
```suggestion
Anonymous types are instantiated by using the [`new`](../../csharp/language-reference/operators/new-operator.md) operator, and the property names and types are inferred from the declaration. If two or more anonymous object initializers in the same assembly specify a sequence of properties that are in the same order and that have the same names and types, the compiler treats the objects as instances of the same type. They share the same compiler-generated type information.
```

> The previous C# snippet projects an anonymous type that would be defined with two properties, much like the following compiler-generated C# class:

Reviewer: change verb form:

```suggestion
The previous C# snippet projects an anonymous type with two properties, much like the following compiler-generated C# class:
```

```csharp
internal sealed class f__AnonymousType0
{
    public string Formatted { get; }
    public long Ticks { get; }

    public f__AnonymousType0(string formatted, long ticks)
    {
        Formatted = formatted;
        Ticks = ticks;
    }
}
```

> For more information, see [anonymous types](../../csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/anonymous-types.md). The same functionality exists with tuples when projecting into LINQ queries, you can select properties and put them into tuples. These tuples flow through the query, just as anonymous types would. Now consider the following example using the `System.Tuple<string, long>`.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
For more information, see [anonymous types](../../csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/anonymous-types.md). The same functionality exists with tuples when projecting into LINQ queries, you can select properties into tuples. These tuples flow through the query, just as anonymous types would. Now consider the following example using the `System.Tuple<string, long>`.
```

```csharp-interactive
var dates = new[]
{
    DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(-1),
    DateTime.UtcNow,
    DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(1),
};

foreach (var tuple in
            dates.Select(
                date => new Tuple<string, long>($"{date:MMM dd, yyyy hh:mm zzz}", date.Ticks)))
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Ticks: {tuple.Item2}, formatted: {tuple.Item1}");
}
```

With the <xref:System.Tuple%602?displayProperty=nameWithType>, the instance exposes numbered item properties, such as `Item1`, and `Item2`. These property names can make it more difficult to understand the intent of the property values, as the property name only provides the ordinal. Furthermore, the `System.Tuple` types are reference `class` types. The <xref:System.ValueTuple%602?displayProperty=nameWithType> however, is a value `struct` type.

```csharp-interactive
var dates = new[]
{
    DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(-1),
    DateTime.UtcNow,
    DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours(1),
};

foreach (var (formatted, ticks) in
            dates.Select(

>                 date => (Formatted: $"{date:MMM dd, yyyy at hh:mm zzz}", date.Ticks)))

Reviewer: This would be a really good place to point out the language support for tuples use `System.ValueTuple`. That's more than deconstruct, which you mention below. In addition, tuples support:

- tuple assignment
- tuple equality check.

{
    Console.WriteLine($"Ticks: {ticks}, formatted: {formatted}");
}
```

> The previous examples are all functionally equivalent, however; there are slight differences in their usability and their underlying implementations. One nicety with <xref:System.ValueTuple> is the ability to deconstruct.

Reviewer: I'd add a clause here:

```suggestion
The previous examples are all functionally equivalent, however; there are slight differences in their usability and their underlying implementations. One nicety with <xref:System.ValueTuple> is the ability to deconstruct the tuple into its members.
```

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: I'd change this header to something like "tradeoffs"

> While it might seem as though you should always use <xref:System.ValueTuple> over <xref:System.Tuple>, and anonymous types - there are some limitations that you should consider. The <xref:System.ValueTuple> types are mutable, whereas <xref:System.Tuple> are read-only. Anonymous types can be used in expression trees, while tuples cannot.

Reviewer: I'd say "tradeoffs" instead of "limitations":

```suggestion
While it might seem as though you should always use <xref:System.ValueTuple> over <xref:System.Tuple>, and anonymous types - there are tradeoffs you should consider. The <xref:System.ValueTuple> types are mutable, whereas <xref:System.Tuple> are read-only. Anonymous types can be used in expression trees, while tuples cannot.
```

### Key differences

> | Name                     | Type     | Custom property name | Deconstruction support | Expression tree support |

Reviewer: Consider either adding a column, or note on the "Type" column that System.Tuple and System.ValueTuple are public, but anonymous types are internal to an assembly.

Another important tradeoff is that you can't use anonymous types as a parameter to method (other than as a generic type argument). That's because anonymous types don't have names.

Reviewer: Anonymous types, System.Tuples and System.ValueTuples could be used with that function. However, anonymous types can't be arguments to non-generic methods.

> | Name                     | Type     | Custom property name | Deconstruction support | Expression tree support |

Reviewer: Also, add a column to compare named members. Both anonymous types and tuples (using ValueTuple) support named members. System.Tuple has properties named `Item1`, `Item2` etc.

Author: The table already has that `Custom property name`, should I change the column name?

---
title: Choosing between anonymous and tuple types

> description: Learn how to decide whether to design a type as a class, or to design a type as a struct.

Reviewer 2: @IEvangelist sorry for the late feedback, but this description doesn't match the article

Author: Ah, yes! Good catch... updating now.

---
title: Choosing between anonymous and tuple types
description: Learn how to decide whether to design a type as a class, or to design a type as a struct.
ms.date: 06/26/2020
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
---

# Choosing between anonymous and tuple types

> As a developer, choosing the appropriate type involves considering a types usability, performance, and tradeoffs compared to other types. Anonymous types have been available since C# 3.0, while generic <xref:System.Tuple%602?displayProperty=nameWithType> types were introduced with .NET Framework 4.0. Since then new options have been introduced with language level support, such as <xref:System.ValueTuple%602?displayProperty=nameWithType> - which as the name implies, provide a value type with the flexibility of anonymous types. In this article, you'll learn when it's appropriate to choose one type over the other.

Reviewer: nits:
```suggestion
Choosing the appropriate type involves considering its usability, performance, and tradeoffs compared to other types. Anonymous types have been available since C# 3.0, while generic <xref:System.Tuple%602?displayProperty=nameWithType> types were introduced with .NET Framework 4.0. Since then new options have been introduced with language level support, such as <xref:System.ValueTuple%602?displayProperty=nameWithType> - which as the name implies, provide a value type with the flexibility of anonymous types. In this article, you'll learn when it's appropriate to choose one type over the other.
```

## Tradeoffs

While it might seem as though you should always use <xref:System.ValueTuple> over <xref:System.Tuple>, and anonymous types - there are tradeoffs you should consider. The <xref:System.ValueTuple> types are mutable, whereas <xref:System.Tuple> are read-only. Anonymous types can be used in expression trees, while tuples cannot. The following table is an overview of some of the key differences.

### Key differences

| Name                     | Access modifier | Type     | Custom property name | Deconstruction support | Expression tree support |
|--------------------------|-----------------|----------|----------------------|------------------------|-------------------------|
| Anonymous types          | `internal`      | `class`  | ✔️                   | ❌                     | ✔️                     |
| <xref:System.Tuple>      | `public`        | `class`  | ❌                   | ❌                     | ✔️                     |
| <xref:System.ValueTuple> | `public`        | `struct` | ✔️                   | ✔️                     | ❌                     |

## Performance

> Performance is always a topic of discussion when referring to value types vs reference types, often leading to conversations of stack versus heap allocations. However, performance between these types is fairly similar with each other - in other words, performance differences are negligible. The micro-optimizations you might gain from choosing tuples over anonymous types is more often than not irrelevant.

Reviewer: I'll suggest wording similar to the following. The performance differences *could* be major, but it depends on how either type is used:

```suggestion
Performance between these types depends on the scenario. The major impact involves the tradeoff between allocations and copying. In most scenarios, the impact is small. When major impacts could arise, measurements should be takent to inform the decision.
```

| <xref:System.Tuple>      | `public`        | `class`  | ❌                   | ❌                     | ✔️                     |
| <xref:System.ValueTuple> | `public`        | `struct` | ✔️                   | ✔️                     | ❌                     |

### Serialization

> One important consideration when choosing a type, is whether or not it will need to be serialized. Serialization is the process of converting the state of an object into a form that can be persisted or transported. For more information, see [serialization](../../csharp/programming-guide/concepts/serialization/index.md). With anonymous types, and tuple types it is not recommended to use them if you need to serialization. While it is possible to use them with serialization, it is not fully supported, and requires workarounds.

Reviewer: nits:

```suggestion
One important consideration when choosing a type, is whether or not it will need to be serialized. Serialization is the process of converting the state of an object into a form that can be persisted or transported. For more information, see [serialization](../../csharp/programming-guide/concepts/serialization/index.md). When serialization is important, creating a `class` or `struct` is preferred over anonymous types or tuple types.
```
